Introducing Data Engineer (#52)
OctopusDeploy/People: Data-Engineering/L4-Lead-Data-Engineer.md

# L4: Lead Data Engineer

> _I am a well-rounded data engineer and problem solver. I can be trusted to take a brand new idea from inception to production, bringing people along with me throughout the process and providing clarity for our team. I am trusted to autonomously lead people through complex problems with a proven record of delivering ideas from inception to their successful completion._

- **Planning horizon**: 6-12 months
- **Impact radius**: Team (5-15)
- **Evaluation**: Manager or Director

> - **Responsibility and direction needed**: Takes brand new ideas from inception to production with limited supervision.

Author: I think so I'll follow this up "soonish" with an L5 while my headspace is here.

## 🦉 Domain expertise

- I am a well-rounded data engineer and problem solver
- I am an expert in my team's domain and various ETL solutions

> - I am comfortable diving head-first into moderately risky situations with relatively little upfront information and oversight

Author: No it doesn't discussed sync

- I had some difficult conversations with my teammates, challenging them directly while showing them my care for them personally.

</details>

## 🧭 Culture and Leadership

- I encompass all of the qualities listed in [Leadership](https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/People/blob/main/Leadership.md)
- I understand our organisation structure and how we schedule work, and help my team find their highest value contributions in this environment.
- I am comfortable with transparently assessing risk, making recommendations, escalating appropriately, and dealing with the consequences along the way.
- I recognise problems and proactively engage with other people to prevent or resolve them quickly.
- I am comfortable coordinating projects where success requires the input of multiple teams and diverse technical roles.
- I am an adept communicator, and can effectively steer technical and non-technical conversations to positive outcomes over any medium.

<details>
<summary>Examples</summary>

- I identified the work involved with delivering a pitch, broke it into tasks and managed the project to completion.

> - I took ownership of my team's retrospective process, making sure everyone had a voice in how our team works and evolves together.

Author: The structure is additive, L3 covers "I take responsibility for my own mistakes and learn from the mistakes of others."

Accountability/ownership is already demonstrated earlier to get to L4, otherwise, it's a coaching opportunity to remember that it's an important aspect.

- I performed interviews for engineering candidates, providing detailed and useful feedback 
- I confidently pitched an idea, positively influencing and convincing people to take decisive action.
- I effectively steered technical and non-technical conversations to positive outcomes.
- I was typically the first to take responsibility for reducing waste in our process.
- I noticed a project was going to become blocked by another team, or take longer than expected, so I pulled together relevant stakeholders to propose an updated plan and reach a consensus.

</details>

## 🏆 Stakeholder Success

> - I assess what work supports the commercial growth of Octopus and make insightful recommendations regarding priorities.

Author: scoped further so it's not just "commercial growth of Octopus".

- I understand our fixed-time/high-quality/variable-scope approach to software projects.
- I invest in sustainable delivery, maintaining professional standards and striking a pragmatic balance between idealistic purity and business pressures.

> - I identify key gaps in our platform offerings and functionality that will empower those in the organization to make better decissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- I identify key gaps in our platform offerings and functionality that, if addressed, will empower those in the organization to make better decisions.
```
